---
title: Adobe Experience Platform Release Notes
description: Experience Platform release notes for July 28, 2021.
doc-type: release notes
last-update: July 28, 2021
author: ens72471
---

# Adobe Experience Platform release notes 

**Release date: July 28, 2021**

Updates to existing features in Adobe Experience Platform:

- [Data Science Workspace](#dsw)
- [[!DNL Dataflows]](#destinations)
- [[!DNL Query Service]](#query)

## Data Science Workspace {#dsw}

Data Science Workspace uses machine learning and artificial intelligence to create insights from your data. Integrated into Adobe Experience Platform, Data Science Workspace helps you make predictions using your content and data assets across Adobe solutions.

**New features**

| Feature | Description |
| --- | --- |
| Library and OS updates | Data Science Workspace has made significant library and OS updates to improve functionality and usability. This includes JupyterLab 1.2.20, Python 3.7, Pandas 1.2.4, Tensorflow 2.4.1 with CUDA 11 and CUDNN 8 support, and more. To learn how to view the available libraries within JupyterLab, visit the [supported libraries](../../data-science-workspace/jupyterlab/overview.md#supported-libraries) section in the JupyterLab notebooks overview documentation. |

For more general information on Data Science Workspace, refer to the [Data Science Workspace overview](../../data-science-workspace/home.md).

## [!DNL Dataflows] {#dataflows}

In Adobe Experience Platform, data is ingested from a wide variety of sources, analyzed within Experience Platform, and activated to a wide variety of destinations. Platform makes the process of tracking this potentially non-linear flow of data easier by providing transparency with dataflows.

Dataflows are a representation of data jobs that move data across Platform. These dataflows are configured across different services, helping move data from source connectors to target datasets, where it is then utilized by [!DNL Identity Service] and [!DNL Real-time Customer Profile] before ultimately being activated to [!DNL Destinations].

**New features**

| Feature | Description |
| ------- | ----------- |
| Destinations dashboard | You can now use the monitoring dashboard to monitor dataflows for destinations. To learn more, please read the tutorial on [monitoring destinations in the UI](../../dataflows/ui/monitor-destinations.md#monitoring-destinations-dashboard) |

For more general information on dataflows, refer to the [dataflows overview](../../dataflows/home.md). To learn more about destinations, refer to the [destinations overview](../../destinations/home.md).

## [!DNL Query Service] {#query}

[!DNL Query Service] provides the ability to use standard SQL to query data in Adobe Experience Platform to support a variety of analysis and data management use cases. It is a serverless tool that allows you to join datasets from the [!DNL Data Lake] and capture the query results as a new dataset for use in reporting, [!DNL Data Science Workspace], or for ingestion into [!DNL Real-time Customer Profile].

You can use [!DNL Query Service] to build data analysis ecosystems, creating a picture of customers across their various interaction channels. These channels might include point-of-sale systems, web, mobile, or CRM systems.

**New features**

| Feature | Description |
| ------- | ----------- |
| Scheduled queries | You can now, using the Query Editor, schedule queries in Platform. To learn more, please read the documentation on the [Query Editor](../../query-service/ui/user-guide.md). |

For more information, refer to the [Query Service documentation](../../query-service/home.md).