---
title: Adobe Experience Platform Release Notes
description: Experience Platform release notes July 15, 2020
doc-type: release notes
last-update: July 15, 2020
author: crhoades, ens25212
---

# Adobe Experience Platform release notes 

**Release date: July 15, 2020**

Updates to existing features in Adobe Experience Platform:

- [Real-time Customer Profile](#profile)
- [Segmentation Service](#segmentation)
- [Sources](#sources)

## Real-time Customer Profile {#profile}

Adobe Experience Platform enables you to drive coordinated, consistent, and relevant experiences for your customers no matter where or when they interact with your brand. With [!DNL Real-time Customer Profile], you can see a holistic view of each individual customer that combines data from multiple channels, including online, offline, CRM, and third party data. [!DNL Profile] allows you to consolidate your disparate customer data into a unified view offering an actionable, timestamped account of every customer interaction.

**New features**

| Feature | Description |
| ------- | ----------- |
| Data usage policy enforcement | In [!DNL Real-time Customer Data Platform], data usage policy violations are automatically surfaced when a violating action in the [!UICONTROL Profile] workspace is attempted. See the release notes for [Data Governance] for more information on automatic policy enforcement. |

## Segmentation Service {#segmentation}

Adobe Experience Platform Segmentation Service provides a user interface and RESTful API that allows you to build segments and generate audiences from your [!DNL Real-time Customer Profile] data. These segments are centrally configured and maintained on [!DNL Platform], making them readily accessible by any Adobe application.

[!DNL Segmentation Service] defines a particular subset of profiles by describing the criteria that distinguishes a marketable group of people within your customer base. Segments can be based on record data (such as demographic information) or time series events representing customer interactions with your brand.

**New features**

| Feature | Description |
| ------- | ----------- |
| Data usage policy enforcement | In [!DNL Real-time Customer Data Platform], data usage policy violations are automatically surfaced when a violating action in the [!UICONTROL Segments] workspace is attempted. See the release notes for [Data Governance] for more information on automatic policy enforcement. |
| Streaming segmentation | Streaming segmentation can now qualify as a user into a segment as data lands into [!DNL Platform], thereby dramatically reducing the segment qualification time. Streaming segmentation also alleviates the need to run segmentation jobs manually. |

For more information on [!DNL Segmentation Service], please see the [Segmentation overview](../../segmentation/home.md)

## Sources {#sources}

Adobe Experience Platform can ingest data from external sources while allowing you to structure, label, and enhance that data using [!DNL Platform] services. You can ingest data from a variety of sources such as Adobe applications, cloud-based storage, third party software, and your CRM system.

Experience Platform provides a RESTful API and an interactive UI that lets you set up source connections for various data providers with ease. These source connections allow you to authenticate and connect to external storage systems and CRM services, set times for ingestion runs, and manage data ingestion throughput.

**New features**

| Feature | Description |
| ------- | ----------- |
| API and UI support for deleting dataflows | Dataflows that were made with errors or have become unnecessary can now be deleted through APIs or using the UI. |
| API and UI support for one-time ingestion | One-time ingestion for dataflows, where only the start date is provided and no future ingestion is scheduled, can now be executed through APIs or using the UI. |

To learn more about sources, see the [sources overview](../../sources/home.md).
