---
title: Adobe Experience Platform Release Notes June 2020
description: The June 2020 release notes for Adobe Experience Platform.
doc-type: release notes
last-update: June 10, 2020
author: crhoades, ens28527
exl-id: bfa61112-06b3-46a3-847d-a48844face52
---
# Adobe Experience Platform release notes 

**Release date: June 10, 2020**

Updates to existing features in Adobe Experience Platform:

- [[!DNL Data Science Workspace]](#dsw)
- [[!DNL Segmentation]](#segmentation)
- [[!DNL Sources]](#sources)

## [!DNL Data Science Workspace] {#dsw}

[!DNL Data Science Workspace] uses machine learning and artificial intelligence to unleash insights from your data. Integrated into Adobe Experience Platform, [!DNL Data Science Workspace] helps you make predictions using your content and data assets across Adobe solutions.

[!DNL Data Science Workspace] has been working on new ways to enable better experiences and predictions through the use of Real-time Machine Learning. Real-time Machine Learning provides the ability to author, test and deploy custom or imported pre-trained machine learning models in industry-standard interoperable model formats for real-time scoring/activation via an API endpoint.

Note that Real-time Machine Learning is in alpha and still currently being developed.

|Feature | Description|
|--- | ---|
| [!DNL JupyterLab Launcher Real-time ML] starter | The [!DNL JupyterLab Launcher] now includes a [!DNL Python] notebook starter for [!DNL Real-time Machine Learning] (Alpha). |

<!-- For more information on the [!DNL Real-time Machine Learning] alpha, please see the [Real-time Machine Learning overview](../../data-science-workspace/real-time-machine-learning/home.md). -->

## Segmentation {#segmentation}

Adobe Experience Platform [!DNL Segmentation Service] provides a user interface and RESTful API that allows you to build segments and generate audiences from your [!DNL Real-time Customer Profile] data. These segments are centrally configured and maintained on [!DNL Platform], making them readily accessible by any Adobe application.

[!DNL Segmentation Service] defines a particular subset of profiles by describing the criteria that distinguishes a marketable group of people within your customer base. Segments can be based on record data (such as demographic information) or time series events representing customer interactions with your brand.

**New features**

| Feature | Description |
| ------- | ----------- |
| Date fields | An "anniversary" feature for date functions has been added, allowing users to evaluate dates without the year. |

For more information on Segmentation, please see the [Segmentation overview](../../segmentation/home.md)

## Sources {#sources}

Adobe Experience Platform can ingest data from external sources while allowing you to structure, label, and enhance that data using [!DNL Platform] services. You can ingest data from a variety of sources such as Adobe applications, cloud-based storage, third party software, and your CRM system.

[!DNL Experience Platform] provides a RESTful API and an interactive UI that lets you set up source connections for various data providers with ease. These source connections allow you to authenticate and connect to external storage systems and CRM services, set times for ingestion runs, and manage data ingestion throughput.

**New features**

| Feature | Description |
| ------- | ----------- |
| Additional API and UI support for cloud storage systems | New source connector for [!DNL Apache HDFS] |
| Additional API and UI support for databases | New source connector for [!DNL Couchbase]. |

To learn more about sources, see the [sources overview](../../sources/home.md).
