---
title: Adobe Experience Platform Release Notes June 2022
description: The June 2022 release notes for Adobe Experience Platform.
---
# Adobe Experience Platform release notes 

**Release date: June 22, 2022**

Updates to existing features in Adobe Experience Platform:

- [[!DNL Data Science Workspace]](#dsw)
- [Sources](#sources)

## [!DNL Data Science Workspace] {#dsw}

Data Science Workspace uses machine learning and artificial intelligence to unleash insights from your data. Integrated into Adobe Experience Platform, Data Science Workspace helps you make predictions using your content and data assets across Adobe solutions. One of the ways Data Science Workspace accomplishes this is through the use of JupyterLab. JupyterLab is a web-based user interface for <a href="https://jupyter.org/" target="_blank">Project Jupyter</a> and is tightly integrated into Adobe Experience Platform. It provides an interactive development environment for data scientists to work with Jupyter notebooks, code, and data.

| Feature | Description |
| --- | --- |
| JupyterLab Launcher | The JupyterLab Launcher now includes starters for Spark 3.2 notebooks. Spark 2.4 notebook starters are now marked as deprecated and set to be removed in a subsequent release. |
| Spark 3.2 | New Scala (Spark) and PySpark recipes now use Spark 3.2 |
| Kernels | Scala (Spark) notebooks are now authored via the Scala kernel. PySpark notebooks are now authored via the Python Kernel. The Spark and PySpark kernel are deprecated and set to be removed in a subsequent release. |
| Recipes | New PySpark and Spark recipes now follow the Docker workflow similar to Python and R recipes. |

{style="table-layout:auto"}

For more general information on Data Science Workspace, see the [overview documentation](../../data-science-workspace/home.md).

## Sources {#sources}

Adobe Experience Platform can ingest data from external sources while allowing you to structure, label, and enhance that data using Platform services. You can ingest data from a variety of sources such as Adobe applications, cloud-based storage, third-party software, and your CRM system.

Experience Platform provides a RESTful API and an interactive UI that lets you set up source connections for various data providers with ease. These source connections allow you to authenticate and connect to external storage systems and CRM services, set times for ingestion runs, and manage data ingestion throughput.

| Feature | Description |
| --- | --- |
| Beta release of [!DNL Mixpanel] source | You can now use the [!DNL Mixpanel] source to ingest analytics data from your [!DNL Mixpanel] account to Experience Platform. See the [[!DNL Mixpanel] source documentation](../../sources/connectors/analytics/mixpanel.md) for more information. |

{style="table-layout:auto"}

To learn more about sources, see the [sources overview](../../sources/home.md).
