---
title: Audience Manager Expanded Activation
description: Learn how to activate Audience Manager audiences to social and advertising destinations from Real-Time CDP, through Audience Manager Expanded Activation.
---

# Audience Manager Expanded Activation

Built on Adobe Experience Platform, Audience Manager Expanded Activation helps existing [Audience Manager](https://experienceleague.adobe.com/en/docs/audience-manager/user-guide/aam-home) users activate their audiences to [social](../destinations/catalog/social/overview.md) and [advertising](../destinations/catalog/advertising/overview.md) destination platforms from Real-Time CDP, such as [Facebook](../destinations/catalog/social/facebook.md), [Google Ads](../destinations/catalog/advertising/google-ads-destination.md), and more.

>[!IMPORTANT]
>
>[!DNL Audience Manager Expanded Activation] is only available to existing [!DNL Audience Manager] users.

## Terminology {#terminology}

Audience Manager Expanded Activation uses components from Adobe Experience Platform. To better understand the Expanded Activation workflow and the components that you will be using, make sure you have a basic understanding of the following concepts:

* [Audiences](../segmentation/ui/overview.md): Audiences are sets of people who share similar behaviors and/or characteristics. This collection of people can either be generated by Adobe Experience Platform using segment definitions or audience composition (Platform-generated audience) or from external sources such as custom uploads (externally generated audience). In Expanded Activation, your Audience Manager segments (audiences) are imported as [custom uploads](../segmentation/ui/overview.md#import-audience).
* [Source connectors](../sources/home.md): Source connectors (also known as sources) help Experience Platform users easily ingest data from multiple sources, allowing the structuring, labeling and enhancement of data using Experience Platform services. Data can be ingested from a variety of sources such as cloud-based storage, third party software, and CRM systems.
* [Destination connectors](../destinations/home.md): Destinations describe any endpoint, such as an Adobe application, advertising platform, cloud storage service, or marketing service, where an audience is activated and delivered. [!DNL Expanded Activation] supports the activation of audiences to [advertising](../destinations/catalog/advertising/overview.md) and [social](../destinations/catalog/social/overview.md) destination connectors.

## Prerequisites {#prerequisites}

Before you can activate audiences through Expanded Activation, make sure you meet the prerequisites described below.

### Audience requirements {#audience-requirements} 

To activate audiences through [!DNL Expanded Activation], make sure your Audience Manager audiences are based on **hashed email addresses**. There are two ways to ensure this, based on your Audience Manager usage:

* If you are a customer of [Audience Manager Pople-based Destinations](https://experienceleague.adobe.com/en/docs/audience-manager/user-guide/features/destinations/people-based/people-based-destinations-overview), then you are already ingesting hashed email addresses in Audience Manager. There is no additional step that you need to take in this case. You can skip to [activating audiences through Expanded Activation](activate-audiences.md).
* If you are _not_ a customer of [Audience Manager Pople-based Destinations](https://experienceleague.adobe.com/en/docs/audience-manager/user-guide/features/destinations/people-based/people-based-destinations-overview), you must create a new data source in Audience Manager, and use it to store hashed email addresses. See the documentation on [configuring a data source for hashed email workflows](https://experienceleague.adobe.com/en/docs/audience-manager/user-guide/features/data-sources/create-data-source-hashed-emails) to learn how to do this. After you have ingested hashed email addresses in your Audience Manager data source, read the documentation on [activating audiences through Expanded Activation](activate-audiences.md).

### Permission requirements {#permission-requirements}

See the documentation on how to [configure Expanded Activation permissions](configure-permissions.md) for more details.

## How Expanded Activation works {#workflow}

Audience Manager Expanded Activation relies on existing Audience Manager audiences and segmentation capabilities, but brings additional people-based activation channels from Real-Time CDP.

## Next steps {#next-steps}

Now that you have a better understanding of what you can do with Expanded Activation, you can start [configuring your permissions](configure-permissions.md) and [activate your audiences](activate-audiences.md).

