---
title: Restrict Access To Fields Of An Ad Hoc Schema
description: Adobe Experience Platform Query Service allows you to restrict access to 
---
# Restrict access to ad hoc schema fields 

empowers the customers to restrict access to fields of an ad hoc schema

Schema based labelling ias an important component of Atttribute Based Access Control (ABAC).

Ad hoc schemas are schemas generated by executing a CTAS query.

A query is executed through the Query Editor in the UI. 

The results generated mean that an ad hoc schema has been generated.

## Schema dashboard instructions

Navigate to Schemas dashboard browse tab.

Select filter icon. A left rail appears. Enable "Show adhoc schemas" by selecting the toggle.

Select the recently created ad hoc schema form the available list.

A visualization of the ad hoc schema structure appears.

Select the "Labels" tab. This view allows you to apply labels to the filed and control access permissions.

All the fields within the ad hoc schema are represented here.

To apply a label, select one or more fields from the list followed by "Edit governance labels" in the right sidebar.

The [!UICONTROL Edit labels] popover appears.

Select "Custom labels" from the type column. If you have admin credentials, select "Create label" from the top right of the popover to create a new label for your data governance or business needs. If you do not have admin privileges please approach you xxx to arrange access.

<!-- In theory we should document the creating a new label process here. -->

Alternatively, select one of the available custom labels should you already have a label appropriate for your needs.

>[!NOTE]
>
> Labels can also can be created using the admin console. See the xxx documentation for instructions on creating labels through admin console.

Select [!UICONTROL Save] after completing the process.

Once the label has been applied, the filed will no longer be visible to any who do not have the required permissions.

Any subsequent queries that reference the restricted field will result in an error and will not acknowledge the existence of the restricted field. Equally, if the results of an executed query would include the restricted filed, this data is omitted from the returned results.

<!-- "All data that is brought into Adobe Experience Platform is constrained by Experience Data Model (XDM) schemas. This data may be subject to usage restrictions defined by your organization or by legal regulations. To account for this, the Platform allows you to restrict the usage of certain datasets and fields through the use of data usage labels.

A label applied to a schema field indicates the usage policies that apply to the data contained in that specific field.

While labels can be applied to applied to individual datasets (and fields within those datasets), you can also apply labels at the schema level. When labels are applied directly to a schema, those labels are propagated to all existing and future datasets that are based on that schema." -->

## Getting started

This guide requires a working understanding of the following components of Adobe Experience Platform:

* Experience Data Model (XDM) System: The standardized framework by which Experience Platform organizes customer experience data.
  * Schema Editor: Learn how to create and manage schemas and other resources in the Platform UI.
